---
layout: default
title: Earth
accent: var(--cl-red)
---
{% include infobox_planet.html 
    name="Earth"
    system="Sol" 
    quarter="Terran Core Quarter"
    image="Earth.jpg"
    caption="Earth in 717."
    catname="Sol d"
    cattime="Ancient"
    demonym="Terrene, Tellurian"
    mass="5.972 &#215; 10<sup>24</sup>"
    relmass="1.0" 
    radius="6,371" 
    relradius="1.0"
    dist="149,598,000" 
    reldist="1.0"
    year="365.26"
    ecc="0.0167"
    grav="9.81"
    relgrav="1.0"
    sidereal="23h 56m 4s"
    synodic="24h"
    %}

**Earth** (Sol d, Sol-III) is the third planet from the type-G5V star [Sol](Sol.html). It is the
fifth largest planet body in the [Solar system](Solar_system.html), as well as the densest. It has
one natural satellite, [Luna](Luna.html), likely formed from a cataclysmic impact with another
planet early in the planet's history.

Earth is the homeworld of [Terrankind](Terrankind.html), as well as the capital and most populated
planet of [The Terran Federation](Terran Federation.html). It is one of the three political capitals
in [Juxta Sagittaria](Juxta_Sagittaria.html), after [Ko](Ko.html) and [Tal](Tal.html).

## Biosphere
Life on Earth emerged some 3.8 billion years ago as single-cell life, but multicellular life is
approximately a billion years older. Early Terrene life would likely have emerged from oceans,
dependent on Earth's high moisture.

Between 200 and 65 million years ago in its past, Earth was dominated by enormous terrestrial
lizards, known as dinosaurs. A mass extinction event, likely an asteroid impact, led to their
demise. The extinction of the dinosaurs likely left mammalian organisms the opportunity to
diversify, leading to their modern dominance and the derivative evolution of Earth's sapient
species. 

## Geography
Earth is a temperate garden world with large reserves of water. Over two-thirds of the planet is
covered in ocean. Some, with regards to its abundance of water, affectionately refer to Earth as
"the blue planet", in comparison to many other planets. The huge bodies of water give rise to
enormous ocean currents that cycle warn and cool water across the planet's latitudes, affecting
planetary climate.

While abundant in water, 97.5% is saline, making it untenable to drink without filtration.

## Atmosphere
Earth's atmosphere is composed of roughly 80% nitrogen gas and 20% oxygen gas, the latter vital to
the survival of animal life on Earth. Precipitation varies between rain, sleet, and snow, as well
as volume depending on local climate conditions.

Ozone molecules are abundant approximately 20 to 30 kilometres above the surface of the Earth. The
layer proetects the surface of the Earth from otherwise harmful ultraviolet radiation. While ozone
is hazardous to most multicellular carbon life if inhaled, the layer is too high to warrant any real
hazard.

## Habitation
[Terran](Terran.html) civilisation first formed on Earth and is mostly saturated in areas with
milder climates, though advances in technology allowed many to live in harsher conditions on the
planet.

As of 2717 the planet's population was was estimated at approximately 16 billion inhabitants, and is
expected to remain mostly stable.

## Hazards
Although not as extreme as the other planets in its system, Earth's weather can be dangerous due to
its unpredictability. Much of Earth's weather is driven by the massive amount of water present on
its surface, giving rise to colossal storm systems. Blizzards and storms are common in colder
regions of the planet; Other severe weather phenomena such as hail and tornadoes also occur on
Earth. 

### Tropical Cyclones
Most famously are Earth's tropical cyclones, massive rotating storms that form in Earth's large open
oceans with warm water. Storm strength varies depending on various environmental factors. At the
very centre of each storm is an area of low pressure, forming a "hole" in the storm system, known as
the eye.

Regions closer to the centre of a tropical cyclone receive more severe weather than regions towards
the edge. Weather within the eye is, in fact, extremely clear and calm; The border of the eye, known
as the eyewall, however, is where weather is most severe, with the most extreme wind speeds, air
flow, and precipitation.

Non-Terrenes are often the most vulnerable to Earth cyclones, as the eye often falsely misleads them
to believing the storm is over, moments before the intense weather of the eyewall returns.

### Geography
The planet's highly active tectonic plates regularly produce powerful earthquakes and active
volcanic activity, though relatively few are devastating. Most seismic activity is concentrated
around an area surrounding the Pacific Ocean, dubbed the Ring of Fire. Subsequently, about 75% of
Earth's volcanoes are concentrated within this region. Earthquakes occuring underwater can also
produce massive waves known as tsunamis, which can travel hundreds of kilometres before impacting
coastlines.

### Extraplanetary
In the scope of space, Earth's system harbours a considerably near
[asteroid field](Solar_Asteroid_Belt.html), although impacts are mitigated from its unusually large
moon and the gas giant [Jupiter](Jupiter.html). 
